At 12:59 AM 3/22/00 -0800, David Brin wrote:


<excerpt>ABSTRACT:  What daring 21st century concepts or projects would
you most like to see pursued, if money were no object?


</excerpt>

The longer I shuffle possible scenarios for investing huge amounts of
money, the more I realize the enormous responsibility of making
suggestions.  


Putting aside the inventory of needy causes around the world,
civilization's most immediate need for attention and money is
superlongevity:  overcoming mental and physical disease, reversing aging,
and extending and preserving life.  This requires creative technological
and scientific methods.


How do we do this?  By investing in the essential traits of problem
solving:  curiosity, innovation, inventiveness, inspiration and
imagination.  How do we develop the essential traits that give us the
backbone to recognize a problem and have the brain-power to solve it?  By
learning how to and then by doing it. 


Civilization is largely influenced by storytelling — from symbols to
celluloid.  As new technologies develop, stories will infiltrate the
technology and whisper sweet tidings or shout torrid tales.  It's that
basic:  if you want to influence a heck of a lot of people, talk to them
so that they understand while uplifting their intelligence and opening
their minds. 


For a few billion dollars, my suggestion is:


Research the marketplace for business models and strategies based on
knowledge and learning.  Design business to business plans with companies
and individuals that have expertise in the technologies and sciences of
life extension (genetic engineering, nanotechnoloy, genomics,
prosthetics, robotics, etc.) *and* the latest technological and
communication creative talents of the arts (print, film and electronic
mediums, Internet design, etc.)  


Invest in Extropy Institute to design and produce several parallel
projects.  Hire the talent, invite the problem solving minds, employ the
publicists, and think BIG.  Think like venture capitalists.


Science and technology cannot single-handedly defy the stronghold of
death over culture.  People have to *want* to live healthier and longer. 
If we don't invest in securing business models for superlongevity based
on knowledge and learning, it will be difficult to adequately develop the
products that will enable us to compete with "creatures that are smarter
than human" (Vinge, 1988 http://www.extropy.org/eo/articles/vinge.htm). 
If we are still biologically-based and competing with superintelligent
creatures, they are certainly going to outlive us if they can't outsmart
us.


I'd love to prance around the icy rings of Saturn or garden the oxidized
sands of Mars, but I might not be able to enjoy these dreams if I am not
alive. We must invest in solving the problem of death.  Now.  


Cards on the table—failure is not an option.  I've got some ideas and if
you want I'll send them privately, David.


Natasha





Natasha Vita-More: http://www.natasha.cc

To Order the book: Create/Recreate: The 3rd Millennial Culture

	http://www.natasha.cc/books.htm

Extropic Art & Transhumanist Arts Center: http://www.extropic-art.com

Transhuman Culture InfoMark: http://www.transhuman.org

